The novel, The Scarlet Letter written by Nathaniel Hawthorne contains an 18th century society where it is heavily centered on a puritan religion. 
The symbol of a Scarlet Letter A that is generally seen as a mark of an adulterer is used as a challenge of morality for people involved. 
Hester Prynne, the supposedly widow is initially treated with disdain by her community, slowly builds respect with the community by means of tailoring. 
Her daughter's father, A tormented boston minister named Arthur Dimmesdale, his puritan zeal being fueled by his sin, makes him a minister that is highly sought for his homilies by the community. 
Roger Chillingworth, Hester Prynne's husband, through investigation towards the identity of the adulterer finds and then torment Arthur Dimmesdale through the identity of being his doctor making him later a fiend in Hester Prynne's eyes.
The Author Nathaniel Hawthorne from his puritan geneaology opens his mind about the morality of his ancestors advocating the puritan ideology, from his work the scarlet letter he expresses the fluidity of ones own morality through the changes and difficulties presented towards their lives. 
For having a mistake tests your morals, the method of dealing with the mistake solidifies and or breaks your morality. 
The community of the book set in Puritan New England, challenges their beliefs through having a trust towards a labelled adultress in a long while after her sentence, making their humanity shine through breaking through the rigid laws of their church and showing the intended virtuosity of the church towards Hester Prynne. 
For their own Minister, Arthur Dimmesdale, to reveal his identity of being the adulterer in his greatest homily yet, shakes the impression towards his teachings of puritan origins and thus strikes discourse towards what or who is a true puritan follower. 
All the novel character's morality is made to be distinguished and used towards the developement of the story, the former and latter personalities of the characters shift through evil and good and vice versa thus making the readers reflect and be vigilant about their moralities in the present moment and their past actions making them find vividness in their identities and a discerning eye towards a person's character. 

